okay welcome everybody uh we'll call
this meeting to order this is the town
of and overboard of Finance meeting for
Wednesday November 20th
2024 um we will go ahead and recite the
Pledge of Allegiance I pledge allegiance
to the flag United States of
America the the republ it stands one
nation justice for all
okay thank
you um second item is public speak I do
not see any members of the public Eric
can you confirm is that what you is that
what you all see nobody that's correct
okay the only non-board member is
community voice Channel Community voice
yeah okay good we'll move on to item
agenda item three which is changes or
additions to the agenda does anybody
have any recommended changes or
additions I do this yeah um yeah
um my name is spelled incorrectly in two
spots um there's no h at the end so the
in the first members present and
then and the adjournment it's
l i e c l k i e c i before e so I figure
if we get that taken care of now it'll
the
right yeahor
correct so in the in the meeting minutes
okay yeah we'll make that correction
yeah yeah so we can do that when we go
to that agenda item I think we can uh we
can vote on it based on that change okay
and one more thing y um I had a question
about um number six when we were talking
about the hiring of the assistant
Community Center person this says um the
assistance hours will qualify for the MS
pension
plan I relistened to that section of the
meeting a couple of times and I don't
think that's exactly what you said Eric
is that what you said did you
say that we are responsible for the
director's mge plan
correct are we talking about in the
meeting minutes Liz in the meeting
minutes right that's what we're talking
about right let's take let's take that
up when we get to that section we get to
the meeting minutes yeah sorry I thought
that's what we were talking about my bad
no no we're on we're we're on number
three which is change of additions to
tonight's agenda agenda yeah I'm sorry
so just is a a matter of information and
I think most of you know this uh but
generally the way uh that this works is
that the agenda has to get published um
in advance of the
meeting and during regular meetings we
can you know regularly scheduled Mee
meetings we can make changes or
additions to the agenda by voting on
them as a board somebody can make a can
make a motion and say I'd like to add
agenda item six new business you know
item H you know you know put a new
playground equipment or what you know
whatever it happens to be so so we can
make those changes during our new
business or during our regular meetings
um for special meetings which we may
call from time to time are not regularly
scheduled uh we generally cannot uh make
changes to the agenda we can only
discuss what's been published in the
agenda which I think has to happen 24 48
hours in advance 24 yeah so that's just
a general general information I know uh
Liz are new and Kimberly's fairly new I
don't know if that's ever come up before
uh so we'll generally have an item on
our agenda to uh address any additions
or changes to the agenda uh than anybody
might request so right ahead yeah we
would have a motion and we would have uh
a vote on it um so we don't necessarily
have to do it if there's only one member
that's at all interested in the topic I
suppose um we don't have to approve it
but generally we would just for the sake
of
discussion okay sorry about that no
that's quite all right this is all about
learning how this
works um so that being said does anybody
have any proposed changes or additions
to the
agenda okay hearing none now we'll move
on to the approval of the meeting
minutes so um Liz has pointed out a
couple of things one is her name is
spell wrong which mean do need to get
right um and I
EC
yeah it's in your email correctly right
so yes it is yeah initially I think I
saw them I just seen something different
um and then you're saying that item
six c yeah I think that's I think that's
misstated I think it's I'll let Eric
speak to that sure item
6B uh the assistance hours is what I
said is she will always be kept under
the 19 hours a week which would obligate
the town to pay for uh her entry into
MERS so what's written there is not
correct
you could simply say will not qualify
for
moves no but in your statement you had
said the director although she's not
taking the medical benefits she will
qualify for the murder's plan
correct
okay what what item is it I'm sorry 6B
it's 6B 6 boy
okay yeah
okay hiring assistant it's I think the
confusion was the assistant versus the
director
yes okay so do we think this needs to
get corrected or
no y I would think so it does
okay Eric so oh sorry so what assistant
should be replaced with
directors I think the the the the line
that it should be changed to is that the
assistant will not qualify for MERS
uh if we want to put something in there
about the director that's that's kind of
a new sentence but um the sentence is
about the assistant and you know as we
just discussed just change the word to
not or add the word
not
right okay and I was just gonna add or
ask Mark Eric can you remind us what is
the the number of hours they have to
work I think you is it 20 hours for Ms
so yes any body that works 20 or more
hours uh has to contribute and the town
has to contribute into a retirement
account for them and so you were stating
that this person would always work below
20 I know I correct in our last meeting
we had said we'd talk over the phone too
because I had a couple questions about
this so we had had that telephone call
yeah thank you
just anybody see any other concerns with
the uh agenda or the uh minutes
sorry okay so we do a couple of things
we can just table this until the next
meeting and and have it corrected and
added to our next agenda or we can vote
to approve it with the changes that were
identified by
Liz I make the motion that we approve it
with the changes identified by Liz okay
so that would correct her names
name and add the word not to the
assistant assistant ours will not
qualify for M pension plan should be how
it reads in six item
6b2 okay Lou seconds do we have any
further
discussion okay hearing none we'll call
for vote all those in favor say I
I any opposed any exstension
he hearing none very good we'll move on
so the uh next item is five a old
Business Review budget
actual I personally haven't taking the
time to look through this does anybody
have any questions or Eric is there
anything we should be looking at that's
of
concern no at this point there's nothing
really of
concern um the the budget in is in
reasonably good shapee considering where
we are in the fiscal
year okay any questions from the board
members okay hearing none I guess we'll
go ahead and move on item well 5B is the
check register anybody have any
questions on the check
register I had one question mark y
Joanne it might have come up at a prior
meeting but I did see one check maybe
Eric could tell us what it was for for
Abby's Contracting in the amount
19656 26 in October sure so we made a
decision to do a bunch of late season uh
shimming of our
roadways um Abby is a contractor that we
have essentially just a day price for um
so we buy the asphalt and they apply it
so whenever you see a bill for aby's
you'll almost always see another bill
for aen asphalt or occasionally hannes
asphal so we elected to do con Road
gerova Road and Skinner Hill Road before
the plow season because they were all in
really rough shape and we didn't get to
it in the round of our chip sealing um
because those are on our priority chip
seal list for next year we basically
just jump the gun to fill in the really
bad wheel ruts now um so we make it safe
for plow season and then we'll fine-tune
it in Spring before we chip seal those
roads is that the same contractor that
does the chip sealing as well no no for
chip sealing uh we tend to use Co we
well the last time around we used comr
Contracting but we've used a couple
different vendors over the last two to
three years and but probably we're going
to stick with comr but it's going to
depend somewhat on on uh uh you know
pricing just because I had mentioned in
Prior meetings the Wheeling Road
compared to the Bear Swamp I think it
looks so much better you know when we
had said is that the second contractor
right comr
so there are pluses and minuses to it
and I personally agree with you that I
like the job done on wheeling better um
but if you look carefully on that road
when they chip sealed they had a much
bigger overlap between the course when
they chip sealed in one direction for
the other direction so that will make it
harder to plow that road smoothly and
get all the snow off the road so there
are some things Gorman did better and
there are some things comr did better
however the public was so pissed off
about Gorman in the amount of dust I
don't think the town is likely to to
consider Gorman uh too much remember
Gorman was just built bought out by All
State so you know it's anybody's guess
what that company's going to be going
forward any I think it was more of a
health hazard Eric that dust I mean I
breathed it for weeks on end
and it did damage to my car too to tell
you the truth but that's a whole another
story I'm glad we're switched to this
new smaller black Chip just looks so
good it's what I remember this process
looking like in other towns too and you
know the variety of roads that you know
I won't go on and on but I just wanted
to remember the name of it so it's
comr and I agree with you I like this
chip seal much better um but not
everybody does right um the roads Gorman
did ultimately do come out smoother than
what comr does but there's a lot more
hassle getting so okay good and bad
thank you yeah no I just wanted to know
the name of that thanks
yep can I ask a couple questions go for
it um what is the um the CRM company for
I looked it up they're like a rubber
crumb
kind of company that does play
playgrounds or
something
um I'll be honest with you I can't tell
you off the top of my head I can
certainly get back to
you
okay um and and because I don't know
anything I'm going to ask something that
maybe everybody else knows why the the
payments to neighboring towns like South
Windsor um
Mansfield manf one Mansfield was another
one I sure I can answer that because
Andover is a really little town and we
we sub out a lot of our
operations to other
municipalities um man the payment to
Mansfield is the payment for Eastern
Highlands health
district they're 133 Town health
District that covers the town of Andover
that's our expense for the health
district South Windsor provides IT
services to the town of Andover uh
Bolton provides our building official uh
we sub out athletic field maintenance to
Hein we sub out Animal Control to
Northeast Council of
governments
um and those are all the ones off the
top of my head but yeah that that's what
those payments are are those are
payments for services rendered to the
town okay thank
you actually now that I think about it
pretty sure CRM is the company that
picks up our tires I was trying to think
about it the reason the the amount
doesn't make sense to me is I was I know
how many tires we collected but we all
Alo there was a a somebody dumped a lot
of waste tires at the Andover
Sportsman's Club so we used the town
contract the last time we had tires
hauled and we hauled theirs also um and
then just charge the Sportsman's Club
because they have no real way to get rid
of a hundred some odd tires dumped on
their property but the town does so of
that CRM Bill the town's portion was
about 800
we back charged the Sportsman's Club I
think
$47 for the tires that were dumped on
their
property okay sorry I had to look that
one up
y okay other questions on the check
register I am gonna throw one more in
Mark just so that because I know we have
a lot of new members and we've been
bringing up different um things that
well not a lot of new members but just
might not have heard this question
question the murf payment Eric that I
know was $
13,99 remind me is that quarterly that's
not monthly is it no it's not
monthly but I don't remember whether
it's by monthly or you know quarterly to
be honest I can look back in our packets
too to see how often um yeah I know I
don't do that one that that one doesn't
come through every single month okay we
don't pay that every month that's good
thank that what does that stand for murf
Municipal Employee Retirement fund it is
the statun retirement fund that the town
has participated in since the
70s so what is the difference between
that and the MS me RS as in say nothing
really typo yeah was it a typo yeah is
it a it's actually referred to as both
um there's no difference between those
two acronym
okay I don't remember the MS
okay
okay questions yep go ahead John just to
follow up Eric and just to since Liz had
an interest too um isn't it it's above
15% now right that's contributed per
employee I do you remember what the
uh or was it up to 18% at one point I
know we
every year it got as high as like just
under just over
18% um it's backed off from that because
the state of Connecticut
renegotiated that whole package in the
way cost of living was
calculated um with the employee unions
um so it's at around 15% right now um
the problem is is that you know when it
comes to budgeting we don't know that
exact number when we first set our
budget so sometimes they'll give us
guidance but that's not a firm number
until they've crunched all their
Actuarial numbers essentially for the
previous year and then tell the towns
what the individual contributions are
and the town's contribution um and it
varies from year toe uh when they uh do
that um we're hoping to have that in
January that
number thanks yeah I so can I just
piggyback on that so the 15% is that 15%
of the person's salary we pay okay
correct or whatever the percentage is
thank you it's always going to be a big
number um it's it's a nice benefit for
the employees
yeah I have a question on the safety
marketing
item go ahead Lis what exactly is
that uh which one are you talking about
11 779 the no 778 the
$3,965 oh that's
um that is the company that does the
line striping on town roads okay um and
I think we had them do parking lots and
and a few other things but that's pres
predominantly line striping on roads
which is why we we don't do a whole lot
of that because epoxy striping a road
and meeting the new state standards for
reflectivity it's really expensive per
mile now so yeah was that part of the
community centers thing as well when
they you redid the or did the um parking
lot um so
the the front part of the lot where the
community center
is that was all part of the original bid
with the contractor they were on the
hook for doing the striping relative to
that um when we redid the parking lot
between the town and the garage um some
of that striping is Incorporated in that
number for safety systems
okay okay other
questions okay hearing none I guess we
can go on to our next agenda item which
is 6C I'm sorry 6B um sorry 6A we were
just not the only one I want to move
this along this AES Capital fund so um
I'm not sure what the topic is here Eric
um just to
discuss fund I mean questions from from
the Board of Ed but I was gonna say can
I put if Eric can we can listen to Eric
first and then I had a couple things to
add because I know I had mentioned in
the last meeting that there was a few
emails back and forth just to get it all
straight and make sure it was created is
that what you think it is too Eric
uh I'm not sure exactly why uh you
wanted to address I remember after the
last meeting in my notes there was
something to add a discussion of that
for this meeting um currently there's
around
$212,000 in that fund so what one of the
things that seems to be confusing the
Board of Ed is that in the past when we
established a fund we also established a
Standalone bank account for that fund um
we have stopped doing that and we have
started using pooled
cash um the difference being if there's
a standalone bank account the interest
acrs to that particular fund and if
you're using pooled cash the interest
essentially URS to the town um and if
you notice like in our budget this year
we account for roughly 140 ,000 in
interest income um in our income line
coming into the town because we're
assuming that goes to the town directly
not to the individual
funds um the Board of Ed seems to think
that that money should ACR directly to
the funds but that's a decision
ultimately that the board of Finance I
think would make and then that would be
put in you know next year's budget if
you want that money to ACR to all the
capital funds then we would do that but
we would reduce the income line item in
our budget from its current 140,000 and
that would decrease that line item by
somewhere around 60 or
$70,000 because we would no longer be
crediting the income to the town we
would be crediting it to specific
funds I wanted to further say
well not touching on that quite yet I
know that that would probably present
some questions like you said um I was
happy to see what Cheryl provided us um
I was in the email with Mark I believe
you were on it too where I know there's
been a lot of questions that they wanted
just to see an accounting that the money
we talked about the total you just said
the 212 431 I believe it is that they
can see the balance sheet or whatever
that Cheryl provided there was a lot of
talk to make sure that the the couple
things the one we had created and then
um funded with 100,000 plus whatever
they had returned for the parking lot or
the basketball court whatever was
happening didn't get done just to see it
in one spot so I'm hoping that Cheryl
answered you know the Board of Ed
questions as to um having that all in
one place the other thing she did
mention and I don't know what the Board
of Ed will decide on this um
it's hard to Cheryl has it correctly
named you know so that it can see AES
Capital fund but Cheryl did say that
maybe a bank statement didn't a question
came from a board of ed member that I
happened to be copied on that it wasn't
spelled out exactly with that name and
Cheryl provided feedback that it's hard
to change a bank account name once it's
established but the backup and
everything that goes with it and the
funding all matches up to what the town
records have again that's deeper than I
go but I I thought by reading Cheryl's
email she gave a lot of good feedback to
them so I hope that they're happy with
that that's my two cents to add to yeah
I I think I think uh Jan kind of summed
it up there was some confusion because
the bank account was named you know AES
Capital fund and they were wondering
about the other one and yeah
so so Cheryl cleared up that the name
diff was ult to you know change but that
the the account LS would occur
appropriately um and they have asked
also about a stiff fund a separate stiff
fund and I think that their main concern
would be that
any interest income coming from the AES
funds would roll back into those funds
which sounds like what you're saying
Eric that the board of Selectmen thinks
should happen with all the
funds no I'm I'm not I'm saying shareff
and I were discussing that if the the
way it works now is if there is a
standalone bank account a checking
account for a assigned to a particular
fund whatever money is in that checking
account the interest in that account
automatically acrs to that account but
for most funds and for most things the
money is essentially held in pool cash
so the money is still sitting in one big
pot most of which is in the stiff
account but essentially there's a a
credit for lack of a better term to
particular so that money although it's
sitting in the bank it is spoken for by
that fund so it's not like you could
spend it from something else without
deliberately making a motion to take
something out of a fund but there's not
an individual bank account for that
frankly because it was it was getting
out of control I mean we still have 26
bank accounts with 26 checking accounts
with MNT and every single one of those
were paying fees on and we're having to
reconcile every month so um as we move
forward we're eliminating those for most
things in going to pool cash now there
are some things where we probably can't
do that and an example of that would be
the Norton funds uh because of the
charter under which that money was given
to the town when Chester Norton kicked
off in the uh
1940s um we're still you know operating
under that so uh but for most things
that's how we've been doing it if the
board thinks it's appropriate to have
that money uh the interest automatically
roll into the fund that's okay that's
certainly your decision as a board um
but in some ways it's a a zero sum gain
because that's Revenue the town's not
getting so you know we would just reduce
the amount that we would fund that fund
at to account for the interest going
into it if you wanted to go uh that
route um it's really kind of what you
guys as a board or you all as a board
want to
do well the Norton fund Eric we only
they could only spend the interest right
they can never spend the principal
correct yeah that's probably why it was
left that way and then all of the stiff
accounts they are set up so that all the
interest is accured to the
individual accounts right the individual
there's one stiff account I I realized
there's one stiff account but I thought
it had a way of doing accounting that
said I'm making stuff up you know Road
fund account and I'm just making stuff
interest earned and it would stay within
that
specific you know what I'm saying
there's a lot of different funds stiff
and the interest would be allocated
correctly to each one of the did
different line items I guess we
certainly could do that if that is what
you want to do as a board as in in
general we haven't been doing that we've
only been acre the interest if there's
an actual SE separate bank account for
that okay I kind of see what Bill's
saying too because I feel like I've
heard discussions and I wish I knew
which meeting whether it was ours or at
the board of
Selectmen that we were going to be
putting the interest in the different
funds I I feel like I'm not pulling it
out and now I feel like we're reverting
back to not with Eric's assessment of it
um but it's good for us to bring it up
and see what we want to or if when that
comes before us because it kind of makes
sense to have
it I mean I I know it's a lot of work
but even if you have it all in that one
stiff account but I thought that Cheryl
had said there's the separate funds that
she lists and then she was able to pull
out the interest that's what I remember
there was yeah and I feel like I do too
Bill so I'm I'm with you on this one I
don't want to revert all the way back to
what Eric is sort of describing right
now and saying we hadn't discussed that
yet I thought that it had the backing of
and I will go through my emails we don't
have to prolong all of this now but I
mean this has been a question that's
kind of been going forward um he has the
more direct line to Cheryl but I feel
like we've heard that
before the other question I had Eric was
on the rest of those 26 various um
separate accounts what is stopping us
from other than like the Norton fund um
why aren't we moving all those accounts
into this sff fund as quick as possible
so that we earned a lot more
interest well so that's a good question
and and a lot of them we have moved in
it's just with MNT it's kind of an
active Congress to actually close an
account um so you in the reason why we
haven't been stressing over that is I
think we probably are going to quit MNT
completely um we're just going to do it
in
phases um you know mainly because I want
to make sure if we switch
Banks um you know and we're considering
a switch to Webster Bank that we end up
in a better situation not a worse
situation so what we're talking about
doing is changing essentially three
things over now and just waiting six
months and see how it goes and if it
works well when the treasurers back uh
in Connecticut again will switch all the
accounts uh over thank
you any other questions uh about the
capital fund or other
discussion yeah we'll probably need to
revisit this you know maybe in the new
year uh make sure we have Clarity that
everybody's on the same page so maybe it
it ACC Cruise during the budget season
we that would be a good time to make it
clear what we would expect to to
happen Okay so if nobody has anything
else uh we'll go to 6B which is the
review the policy on nomination for the
chair and the vice chair so if you
remember I brought this up last meeting
I had gone back and looked and I said oh
we we had voted at some point to do an
annual uh nomination and uh selection of
the chair and vice chair for the board
that was in August um and there may have
been a reason we kind of picked that
time or it may have just been because it
came up there in that time uh what I
when we and we haven't done it we didn't
do it this year um so one thing that I
would propose is that we consider
changing the timing of that election
to uh the first meeting after the
election
cycle um so maybe you know first
typically that would be the November
meeting right so if we do it then it
gives the new members an opportunity to
uh vote in that uh selection of the
chair and the vice chair and if the for
some reason the uh membership changes
during the election cycle then that also
would take that into account so we
wouldn't have to scramble and make that
change anyway uh so both are strong
possibilities and we certainly want to
make sure that the new members have an
opportunity I think to vote for the
chair and the vice
chair so I think that it would be in
order if you guys are in agreement with
that concept or can certainly discuss it
but I think uh I think it would be in
order for us to make a motion to change
the board's policy to uh nominate and
vote on the chair and vice chair either
annually or
biannually uh in the November uh time
frame November meeting or you know soon
thereof if we don't meet in November
because sometimes we
haven't anybody have any thoughts on
that it makes sense to me um one thing
I'd mention is I think a bunch of terms
are up next year so if we did by annual
we'd be kind of missing that so you know
either we we set it up such that we have
a vote now and then we say okay we'll do
one more next year and then go to B
annual you know or we just stick with
annual um because otherwise you'd have a
bunch of like you said people coming in
who then didn't have an opportunity to
vote for a chair Vice chair yeah I mean
you know yeah that's a good point Rob
and you know my my thinking would be
probably just keep it annually I mean
we've had enough turnover uh through
people resigning or you know in addition
to just the um you know the election
cycle so it probably makes sense to do
it annually it just keeps it clean we
don't have to remember to do it in the
same same off cycle that we would
otherwise yeah and I I personally in
complete agreement with that the the
meeting after the election is the
appropriate time to do it I don't know
we must have picked August because we
were thinking it came up and it was that
that's the time we were dealing with it
and oh after the FIS year it ended you
know we just gotten through the budget
cycle and it's easy time to do it but
now that you mention it makes a lot more
sense to do right after the election
yeah be right
back any anybody other thoughts
we can go ahead and make a motion then I
was you know I'll just normally the
chair doesn't doesn't motion that much
but I would say I'll go ahead and make
the motion to uh change the board's
policy on the nomination and selection
of the chair and vice chair to the uh
November meeting or uh the next thereof
if that's not
held and have that selection annually
I'll second that the second at least
makes complete sense yeah further
questions okay I guess we'll go ahead
and take a vote all those in favor say I
I any
oppos any
extensions okay very good we'll move on
the next one is the to nominate and vote
on the chair and vice chair so here we
are
um I I I'll just say a couple things
prefatory to this that the um the and
this is just more for the new members
like Liz who haven't really been through
this cycle before um the the chair and
the vice chair the main job is to run
the meetings um we want you know that
you want uh the meetings to be run
fairly effectively you need them to be
run legally so that the town is
protected and the public of course gets
their say and then that things are done
above board and
transparently um there is a little bit
of work or knowledge or you know skill I
guess in that sense that you have to be
a little careful uh but it's not rocket
science I mean you guys have all seen
this before we do what every every uh
every month right so it's pretty
straightforward um there is some
additional communication and activity
that happens uh Joanne and I get copied
on email from the Board of Education if
they have questions uh there's been a
few as Joan indicated from the Board of
Ed to um the treasurer or to the town
manager or to us or and you'd also may
represent the board of Finance in um
various you know discussions Etc that
happen unofficially off it's not off the
Record but they're not a true board
meeting they're just you know maybe it's
discussions about the accounts or you
know what are we going to talk about you
also um Eric will typically reach out to
us and say Here's the packet draft you
know do you have anything to add or
change um we're going to publish it you
know on Monday uh so get get any changes
to us and and typically there aren't
many but we do sometimes have some
changes that being said there's no
differential between the chair and the
vice chair and any other member of the
board in terms of those of those um
prerogatives so you know if if Bill were
to to contact the board or contact Eric
or or Kate and say hey I'd like to add
an agenda item to the next meeting to
discuss you know the uh Town Road fund
you know then you know certainly that is
within your prerogative also there's
there's nothing to uh prohibit that from
happening I mean typically it would go
through the chair but it doesn't NE
necessarily have to um and obviously
within voting uh the chair has no more
say than anybody else and the vice chair
has no more say than anybody else you
just uh you are trying to direct the
meetings efficiently you're trying to do
them fairly you're trying to keep
everybody uh on on U on topic as much as
possible including the public which is
sometimes where things can go a little
little off not typically I mean we
generally have pretty good uh pretty
good understanding and people are pretty
concise and uh and to the point when
they do have their comments but it is
important to uh to keep that in
mind um yeah I guess that's really all I
have to say um the last thing I'll add
is that I am completely happy to hand
this over to somebody else if somebody
wants to take the reins uh for the for
the following year um it is a little
extra work but it's it's not huge um you
know my my my job does keep me pretty
busy on along with some other things so
um you know again it's not a ton but uh
you know it is it is something that I
try to make sure that I'm at all the
meetings that I can be and paying
attention and interacting and answering
questions where we can um so um so
there's a little more work to it but
it's not a whole lot um Joanne you got
anything to comment on that no I think
you summed it up great Mark um you know
it's good to be involved and be you know
focused on things going around in town I
think just so that we can
bring you know the vice chair and chair
and all members can bring points to the
board of Finance meetings and stuff like
that I do think it might be I would lean
more that it it's nice to streamline the
topics that we want to put on an agenda
through the chair like we have been or
vice chair but I this is the first I
knew that anyone could you know go
straight to the I I understand that
that's a good you know a good idea to
keep open communication I just think
it's kind of nice to streamline it a
little bit to see you know what topics
we were going to cover that month or
whatever that was that would be my only
thought but if you know you're saying
that should be open to everybody I think
that they kind of send things to us and
then we kind of get together and put it
in I know you had suggestions last time
I had you know several questions last
time and one made it to the agenda
that's all other than that it's a group
effort anyway yeah I would agree with
you that's definitely a more efficient
way to run things then you have
everybody everybody on board and you
know sometimes I may say well maybe
that's fits better under this topic and
we work it out um you know and of course
we always have the opportunity on
regular board meetings to change the
agenda exactly change the agenda so yeah
yeah generally it would be better to go
through the chair or vice chair honestly
just because that way Eric's not getting
you know it from four different people I
mean typically we don't add a lot it
tend to be a very uh repetitive agenda
lineup that you've
seen yeah that was it
yeah and I think in terms of the process
of nomination you shouldn't wait for
somebody to nominate you if anybody
would like to volunteer is interested in
in doing the job or willing uh you know
go ahead and speak up because uh you
know I'm not going to nominate Bill if I
really think he doesn't want to do it
for example you know although I may
nominate him anyway not
well just to be clear Mark um you know I
know you're you're being very gracious
about it but um are you are willing to
stay on if you were chosen correct you
would
serve I I would um yeah you know I would
you know either as chair or vice chair
you know I'd be but and but I'd be happy
to you know probably more than happy to
turn it over to somebody else but I
would certainly be there to support in
in any transition you know um I just
happen to have had some background in
you know Robert's Rules of orders Etc
that you know T in parliamentary
procedure which kind of is helpful and I
went to a training class uh for the CCM
the Connecticut conference
municipalities to put things on but I
still have that book that they gave us
the folder and that data and I'd be
happy to hand that to somebody else to
take a look at
so like Robin said you you do have a
good way of running a meeting you know
all the rules and all of that we're all
adding you know knowledge I'm certainly
happy to um you know continue if that's
the way it goes in in my role as well so
I'm gonna go ahead and nominate you as
um the chairperson but I mean again
whoever you
know people are willing to step up if
you can't make it you know depend I
think everyone's shown that they're
available or you know willing to step in
and pinch hit or whatever and run
meetings but you do you have a nice way
of of doing things you present it well
um yeah and so I'm gonna go ahead and
nominate you I think you heard cat's
well so I'm Inon a second all right I a
second but go ahead rob you got it is
that because I happen to be holding a
cat or did you oh my goodness didn't see
the cat but yeah new kittens on point
right do this they're on the keyboard so
I'm try these are skills that you
need so we have do we do we are we doing
nomination for chair vote on chair
nomination Vice chair vote on Vice chair
yeah I would do chair and vice chair
separately okay any other nominations
for chair we have one from Joan does
anybody want to second that nomination
Rob did okay sorry okay I had to make a
joke about it but I did yeah that's
right you did I'm sorry okay thank you
any other
nominations looks like it's you dude
still no he's shaking his
head I've ducked it for 10 years
okay all right well I guess hearing none
any
discussion all right we'll vote all
those in favor say I I I any
opposed any extensions I will
abstain all right thank you I guess for
your vote of confidence not sure it was
the outcome I was really looking for
but am willing to uh do what I
can okay thank you for
your
service uh so I'll nominate Joan I think
she's done a great job I'll second that
as Vice chair okay Joan you are you
accept
the definitely I love I love the role of
Vice chair you know and happily accept
it so no problem and I'm happy to step
up when Mark's not available that kind
of thing um I didn't want to say too
much while I'm nominating him
um no thank you I'm yeah it's it's it's
worked pretty well I mean giant
obviously spent a lot of time keeping in
close touch uh more time than i' I've
spent certainly keeping in close touch
with the other boards and what's going
on so I think it's it's worked out
pretty
well okay um other
nominations maybe we should have a vice
vice chair so you you can kind of pass
the Baton down the
road all right uh hearing none all those
in favor say I I I any
opposed any abstentions do I
abstain typically you
woulding it'll look good in the minutes
don't
worry if it was a TI vot we we'd ask you
to break the tie but typically you would
yeah and and just one thing I should
mention too is just uh it is it's just
more tradition than that the the chair
of the boards uh who's ever chairing a
meeting typically is not the person who
would introduce motions no reason you
can't technically but um just that's why
I don't do it very often it's it's
appropriate and it gives the other board
members an opportunity to make sure they
have their say and state things the way
they want them so that way you're not
you're staying away from the chance
you're dominating the proceedings as
well right there's no procedural reason
you don't have you don't have to do that
yeah
right okay well thank you everybody
we'll move on um the next item is 6D
review changes to the town Charter um I
don't know if we have them in our packet
don't think we no I don't I think we
have Eric's recommendations for what to
do about them yeah so so if if you want
I can share my screen with the the
sections the new sections I yeah why
don't you go ahead and do that Eric sure
okay hopefully you're seeing something
with blue and red that starts with
chapter eight finance and Taxation ER
can you make that full screen
or uh I can make it bigger okay yeah
that's can you yeah okay thank you
okay um so the one caution I have is the
because not every
line everything passed in the
budget the uh Town's attorney and the
town clerk are still working through a
little bit of a disagreement about what
the final language is in the charter
based on the things that pass and the
things that didn't pass um but what what
I'm going to pull out is the things that
I know should be included um and the
first is a requirement that and and one
other thing the majority of the charter
changes don't go into effect till next
July but the things that relate to the
budget explicitly go into effect as soon
as they are voted on so these changes
are already uh the law of the land in
the charter of course as soon as the two
of them agree on what that law of the
land is um so the things that are going
to affect us is that we should it says
the board of Finance shall confer with
the other two boards and lay out your
goals and objectives for the upcoming
budget and um one of the things that's
happened in a lot of Prior years but
that that the board of Finance has
gotten away from the last say four to
five years is you can select or suggest
targets for expenditures for each of the
budgets um in fact the board of Finance
in the past has uh given the board of
edit Target as well as given the uh you
know the general government a target for
what percentage increase um or Flatline
or whatever that they would like it
doesn't mean the budget you're going to
get back will actually conform to that
but it's guidance from you to both of
those entities on uh what your
expectations are
so that's the first thing the second
thing it backs up the date at which uh
each department head um each border
commission chair everybody responsible
for a section of the
budget has to give that information into
myself and the treasurer's office so it
can be collated into the whole budget
and when we get when we look at the next
item which is the budget process
timeline I took all the new dates that
are in here as well as the new
procedures and translated them into a
timeline that I think is correct but I'm
I'm happy to you know you as a board can
modify that uh any way you want um at
the end of the year so uh the other
thing that's different it gives the
Board of Ed a budget submission deadline
of February 15 to present to you their
budget um and it gives me a deadline uh
of 120 days prior to July 1st or June
30th actually uh to present a budget to
both the board of Selectmen and board of
Finance now what the this envisions is a
series of budget review meetings in
March um I think I can get a budget into
your hands and into the board of
selectmen's hands much earlier than that
because this is actually you know
normally by February first at the latest
I've given the board of Selectmen
essentially my completed budget um so
they have a period to review but since
now the review period is going to be
before both boards and and ultimately I
think the board of Finance should be the
one setting the dates and times for that
and just have both boards present so
both boards can ask questions um at the
end of the day the board of Finance is
the one that's responsible for the
budgets um and then here's the revised
duties of the board of
Finance um and this gives you the the
dates you have to hold the public
hearing based on the end of the fiscal
year and outlines when the annual Town
budget and
referendum uh will
be um so does anybody have any
questions on that so first thing um I
just want to ask when will this be
finished being reviewed do you know by
the attorney and when will we get a full
copy of the amended updated
I I don't have an answer for you I kind
of hoped it we would have it
already um because I'm basing you know
my
proposal uh for a timeline on what I
think the final language is going to be
but I I know all of this portion of it
were things that got
accepted uh or or fell under the uh
questions that were approved so I'm
pretty sure this is the the Lang anguage
that will go into effect um what wasn't
made mandatory is the Quorum
requirements for the annual budget are
still in place and uh the language that
it would go automatically to
referendum um did not pass so that's
where they're trying to work out the
differences between the revised language
and what things passed and what things
didn't if that makes sense yep
so if I understand this correctly I mean
it accelerates things slightly from
where we've done it in the past but it
doesn't seem like that drastic a change
the big thing that we're going to have
to do is coordinate with obviously the
other boards and that's coming up in our
agenda we're going to talk about that in
a bit um but long story short you know
I'm thinking about last budget
cycle and I don't remember exactly when
AAS presented their budget to us but you
know this the deadline that's now
specified doesn't seem unreasonable none
of this seems undoable uh my only
concern going into all of this was
whether we were compressing things so
much that we'd be struggling to get
through everything but you know it's
done now and we're g to make it work so
right I I mean I I looked at your
schedule I mean it seems reasonable
enough to me
yeah I think what I propos leaves you
even if you only do one meeting a week
still leaves you seven you know budget
workshops uh to review parts of the
budget which in most years seems to be
as much or more than what the board of
Finance normally does yep yeah we
usually do I feel like we do basically
there's a two-month stretch where we
have a meeting a week every week uh you
know between our regular meetings and
our workshops and we get through
everything in that time and that's
holding to our attempts uh and thank you
Mark for this uh to keep our meetings to
two hours at a shot because we had that
one year where we went till 11:30 at
night and it wasn't good um but you know
if if needs be if you know at the
uttermost extent of need whatever uh we
have to have a longer meeting so be it
um but I I like the idea of just it does
it does seem like a good idea to get
this stuff um in front of everybody as
soon as possible Eric you've done a good
job in the past
of collecting everything and getting it
to us and keeping us informed so I think
we'll make it work the other thing I
think that the it what this basically
does is it has joint budget meetings
between the board of slackman and the
board of Finance so a lot of the time
that Eric spends you know explaining and
going back and then the board of
selectman he's explaining the board of
selectman's position to us you know and
probably explaining the board of Finance
position occasionally the board of
Selectmen and you know this way we're
doing it generally all together and so
there's going to be some uh benefit
there that we uh we acrw Joan that
you're you're hitting on what I wanted
to just clarify too so we will be doing
the majority of the meetings together so
that part does make sense we'll all be
hearing it firsthand rather than you
know I would attend all of those
meetings too like you know and a lot of
so did a lot of other board members and
then we'd come back and hear things and
maybe we'd do a little Corrections like
no I heard it slightly different so that
does take away any everybody would hear
things firsthand but this still is there
I know maybe I'm getting ahead of our
agenda too and I apologize will there be
a meeting an ultimate meeting at the end
where it is just the board of Finance
when we get down to all
of is that what this all well I think
the public hearing um is is really a
board of Finance managed meeting um and
then um the board of Finance I'm not
sure exactly what I would say
that yeah I'll get to it in a sec but
yes so um once you're done with the
review um you're responsible for coming
up with the you ultimately you're
responsible for
reviewing the budget estimates
essentially the reading between the
lines what really should be happening is
the board of Finance should be setting a
meeting schedule and inviting the board
of Selectmen to attend you know they may
or may not attend all of the meetings or
or some of them are only the ones in the
beginning or I I really don't
know
um uh but ultimately the the decision on
the budget as a board is yours and then
what you are required to do is you are
required to hold a public hearing once
you've come up with your recommended
budget and then after the public hearing
you publish a final budget that goes to
the annual town meeting the only real
difference is the time frame for that
has been shifted up uh a couple of
weeks um based on when uh you know when
the the the final uh referendum will
be and Eric I I think I know the answer
to this I just want to make it clear um
for myself maybe other new members uh
even though there may be joint meetings
if there are
um you know things to be voted on uh
things of that nature that is still the
board of Finance the board of selectman
why we're going through the budget
process doesn't vote on it's I I think
that that's not really clear Bill
honestly that's that's something that I
I'm you know concerned about the
language there so what I would say is as
Eric said ultimately the board of
finance's job to come up with the
recommended budget following the public
hearing so typically what we do is we've
settled on a budget uh more or less we
have a public hearing at the end of the
public hearing we will make any changes
based on that or we will vote on the
budget and pass it onto the town meeting
um but there the language the way that
it's written really isn't clear about
who's who you know where the final uh
you know who gets to vote during these
meetings as to what the recommended
budget is well that's got to be cleared
up yeah that's really scary too because
I didn't hear it that way when presented
yeah that goes to Joanne's point about
whether we you know we have that final
meeting of our own to you know in in if
we have these multiple meetings with the
board of Selectmen and then at the end
of the day we have our last meeting and
we make our decisions ourselves then
that preserves our role if it's if this
changes that we're going to have a
multi-board decision-making process well
that changes things rather dramatically
it also makes the meetings potentially
much more unwieldy very unwieldy that
that was my concern say that there is
nothing in the this Charter language
that prohibits us from having a final
Board of Finance only meeting it just
says there shall be budget review
meetings in March which shall be joint
meetings of the board of Select board
Finance yeah I think we look at that in
good faith and say okay I don't think
the board of selectman is trying to you
know take over our role it's just they
think it would be good to coordinate and
I agree with them on that then I think
we'll be okay I think though that we
should in fact make sure that we
schedule one Board of Finance only
meeting right before we go to public
hearing but I'm saying like in in the
case of a motion uh let's just talk
about the board or the new director of
the community center there was a lot of
discussion and motions made concerning
what that salary would be let's just say
um and and again that in my mind is the
board of Finance it's not the board of
Selectmen or a joint board those
decisions are always as the as budget's
being heard it's nice to have their
input but in my mind anyways I don't I
can't foresee them actually having votes
well well Mark what leads I just want to
get this question in what leads you to
believe where are you seeing what
because that especially you be I you
know value your opinion on this where
are you seeing that they might get votes
and things like that what what exact
line leads you to think that it's not
clear the d d with yeah right there in
front of us I mean it's not clear I just
wanted to be literal yeah yeah it was
stated in that review meeting that um
Jeff Maguire held that I believe it was
stated the board of Finance is the
town's board that makes the financial
decisions which leads me to believe the
voting and all of that there not you
know we listen to the review will get
together but I'm hearing it on a whole
different level now than all the
meetings that I I I I think it's it's a
little confusing right so one thing to
think about is what's happened in the
past and and typically and I I I don't
attend the board of Finance uh or I'm
sorry the board of selectman's budget
review meetings typically uh I know Eric
puts together a proposed budget then he
works it out with them they make changes
right so and then what we get is a
pretty much a final product right and
then we can make changes following our
discussion so I don't think anybody's
trying to serf any power it's just not
clear at these joint meetings who has
voting rights I think it is clear that
the board of Finance is the
jurisdictional authority in terms of um
producing the budget for the town
hearing the public hearing and for the
and for the um the recommended budget
for the town meeting I think that that's
pretty clear it's just that there's a
lot of gray in the way that this is
written I don't think it's a problem you
know I don't think it's a major problem
or I'd raised my hand long ago but I
just think it's just something we're
gonna have to work out but I think we
have this forum right now to say that we
bill has said it I've said it Rob has
said it somebody's got to answer the
question that you know
we are hoping that it is as it has been
in the p pass you know and that's the
way it was presented at any kind of
meeting that I went to that these would
be joint meetings where the budget's
going to be discussed and like you said
if it is gray areas then it should be
cleared up like Bill said I think I
think just the real the real question
just ends up being that the board of
Finance is going to have to have a you
know the final decision on the uh on the
recommended budget I don't think
anybody's going to dispute that I mean
it basically states that as a rule or as
the you know duty of the Board of
Finance um you know it says Billy an e
there right so um I'm not sure what that
whole section would end up
reading can I ask a question about
getting back to D again real quick yep
at the end of the of D it says a quorum
of at least one of the two boards is
required oops to conduct
business
um does that mean to just simply hold
the meeting and discuss yeah
it or in order to vote well to have the
meeting at all you have to have a quorum
of either board you have yeah so
conducting business can just be
reviewing the budget figures it doesn't
necessarily you know if you didn't have
if you had three Board of Finance
members and two Board of selectman
members you would not be able to hold a
meeting because you don't have a quorum
of either of either uh board but if you
had three Board of Selectmen
members um in theory that's all you need
right hopefully that's not kind of how
it rolls um and I and I think that the
language was it's vague but um and a
little ambiguous but it I think it's not
unmanageable um I think we just have to
it with a spirit from which it's
intended
so uh but it's a little you know it's
not really clear you know who sets the
meeting dates who's you know who chairs
the meetings uh you know who who has
voting rights in these meetings you know
so those things were not well thought
out in terms of this language and it it
might have made it too complicated to do
that um but it is kind of what we have
and uh I think it's one of these things
we try and we see how it works out if we
run into problems we may have to think
about the change so Mark I I think what
everybody is voicing is that we want the
language clarified before we start the
process can't do that we just had an
election and this is the
language unless unless you're talking
about a legal opinion and is to what it
means I would like a legal opinion yeah
I guess what it me yeah Absol kind I
kind of see what Mark's saying though I
mean we just had an election on this um
but you can't go into this with gray
unanswered questions we have to know the
role when we go to these
meetings uh people have to know what the
role is I mean I I'm I'm inclined toward
that at the same time I'm inclined to
also say
that we can muddle through and see how
it goes and the the issues will become
how do I say clarified I guess as we go
through this and it'll highlight them
and we may have to go from there um this
may be something we can clear up in that
tri board meeting you know propose
propose like hey this is how we see this
going forward you know we have joint
meetings that are informational people
put in their input and then we um you
know ultimately the board of finance
will hold a final meeting vote on the
end result and and then that'll be what
goes to public hearing and then
ultimately to the town meeting I see
that too Mark and I appreciate that and
hopefully it all flows together nicely
Eric had said something at the beginning
that most of the changes to the Charter
won't take place until next July which
is after our budget season what makes it
where is it stated because another point
that was brought up to me um was that we
are rushing to enact this now I know it
got voted and the charter got changed
and everything but um so I'm curious
what makes the budget questions have to
happen now but all you know what makes
the two things I think it's because of
what it's what the charter
says I never read the full-blown Charter
oh it said that the budget will go in
thank you that's a that's an easy answer
right it was spelled out in the uh in
the charter review process that um at
most things would go into effect July
however the things that related to the
budget would go into effect immediately
upon adoption thank you that's an easy
answer and I don't mind asking the
question because I wanted to know and I
didn't read that line so sure yeah yeah
that's a good
question other comments Louise did you
have something or was that Liz earlier
but she that's no no you answered my
Forum question I was actually gonna um
answer what Eric just said because I
remember him saying that the the budget
changes go into effect right
away any any further comments or
questions or anything else Eric we need
to review here in terms of this no I was
going to say if you
wanted um can you see the suggested
schedule that's kind of the next item up
yep and one flows into the
next yeah I had looked at this um yep y
it didn't seem you know it seems like a
decent sketch uh you
know uh obviously October 15 you know
things going to affect immediately
obvious see we've missed we're already
past that right so we're going to try to
have our meeting as soon as possible
instead but um other than that this all
seems quite reasonable to me
um February uh 15th that gives us a
couple of weeks to get to March yeah I
mean this is all this works I mean we're
going to fit our budget workshops in in
between these other
dates and to be honest the funny thing
is this
doesn't this doesn't crunch me anymore
in in fact I produce my initial budget
roughly the same time under this
schedule the only thing we're really
doing is we're just eliminating five
weeks or six weeks of the board of
Selectmen uh meeting and discussing the
budget before it goes to the board of
Finance those two project paths are now
combined into one corre so they overlap
in a sense yeah
yeah
right um and there is some flexibility
in the dates for these um like and you
when we get a little closer you guys
will have to
decide um I mean I gave you a proposed
schedule of when you could start budget
meetings you can choose to start later
um I suppose you could choose to start a
week earlier if you wanted and I could
probably do that if you felt you needed
one more week um and then there's some
new
language uh that says you got to do the
public hearing not less than 85 days
before the end of the fiscal year used
to be 60 so it's back to that up about
25 days for that um so the last possible
day is April 4th but the problem is is
that if you do it April 4 fourth we
still have to send out a mailer five
days before the budget meeting so then
you're really you're pushing the budget
meeting towards the end and making it
harder to comply with the referendum
schedule so there's some flexibility um
if you have specific dates now you
wanted to identify things I would change
it and send it back out with that or you
can kind of adopt something but just
leave that range there for now and when
it gets a little closer select the exact
dates that you want Eric I have a
question on the budget hearing date like
you said you said there's new language
that says it has to happen not less than
85 days did correct we change that are
you saying we because I was going to
when I looked at your
timeline I seem to remember whatever the
dates led up to and we had the budget
hearing the budget hearing seemed to be
very close to the town meeting correct
didn't it always kind of we'd have a
budget hearing and if everything went
through and we gave final revisions I
feel like the budget meeting which is
going to take place according to this um
April 9th
now yes so there's that big cushion
before we vote on it in May right
there's that month in
between I just didn't know why we would
have done that what purpose did it add
to adding time because the 60 days we
could have been everything could have
been kind of closer together
fresher um yeah I feel like so many
things up front but then we're now we
have to do this hearing early because of
the new
language and
then you know when we actually have the
meeting yeah yeah I I wasn't following
the thought of why we had to do that or
why we didn't change it to be more
friendly to the process if we were
changing the charter So Many
Items well the one thing this would give
you um in in My Mind by doing it April
9th um and then having the budget
hearing no later than April 2nd
uh then so the April 2nd to April 9th
gives you seven days to get the mailer
out and make sure you can get the mailer
out on time which is because you're
required to get it out five days ahead
of time that gives you a little bit of
leeway um you know to work with it yeah
um you know we've cut it down to exactly
five days before but or six days before
because that's the minimum we can
legally do which is US put putting the
mailer out the day after you have your
public hearing um and putting the
announcement out by doing April 9th for
the annual Town budget meeting um if the
initial now that it doesn't
automatically go to referendum it can
still fail at the Town budget meeting
you could theoretically have another
budget meeting the next week and maybe
even another budget meeting you know
Town budget meeting the week after so
you might be able to have two budget
failures and still make the May 6th
referendum date so I think that's why
they pushed those deadlines back but I
wasn't on the commission so so I don't
know that for for sure thank you yeah I
just didn't understand why it was such a
gap and I wanted things to be more fresh
in people's head you know being more to
of well it just seems like a big gap of
time but they're anticipating they're
trying to keep things on schedule in
case there were instead of pushing it
the other way they feel like they'd have
some weeks in between to have
additional meetings and hopefully get
one to pass all right all right I could
not make sense of this that whole
timeline at all with the end part of
your timeline I under
thanks yeah I had to break out a
calendar and count the days for each
step um to figure out where it would
fall um because they refer to different
things by dates or by specific date
ranges so I a question real quick Eric
just
certainly just to clarify can you go
back down a teeny bit in this month of
March April can you just clarify for me
this uh sent a budget to the town
meeting on the 24th or earlier that
that's Mar March 24th
correct
um
so uh because it has to be 85 days
before the end of the fiscal year 85
days before the end of the fiscal year
is April 4th so that sets the last
possible day for a finance board public
hearing but as far as I know I think
that's like a Sund
or Saturday so you're probably not going
to hold the public uh the budget meeting
on a Saturday you're probably gonna hold
it on weekday which so that's the week
that you would hold it um I just wanted
to clarify that that was actually March
because I I was assuming it was but I
didn't want to assume it and then find
out that I shouldn't have assumed it
because it was wrong so March 24th okay
correct all right thank you
have a question as well for the Saturday
February 15th is a Saturday for the
Board of Ed to submit the budget to the
board of Finance right is that could it
be the 14th or the
15th it just says they have to do it by
the 15th that's language straight out of
the
charter okay Midnight on the 15th
probably yeah you know and the 15th is
gonna fall on different days depending
on the budget year so yeah okay thanks
of course I suppose if they wanted to
wait until the Saturday and submit it on
the Saturday to you all they legally
[Music]
could so if you could scroll down a
little bit again um all of this seems to
you know come together we just kind of
meet well we don't have to tonight but
it would be ho us I think to plan for a
tentative uh date for the uh uh for the
town budget meeting and for the
uh um public
hearing so Eric you're saying that we'd
have to vote to send the town the budget
to town meeting on the 24th of March or
earlier so the 24th
is 24th
is a
Monday so if we were to hold the town
budget meeting on a Tuesday or Wednesday
which is normally what we would do it
need to be there the 18th or
19th well hold on so yeah I where that's
not quite correct is what I meant to say
is you would have to vote to send to go
to the your public hearing to the public
hearing so not the town meeting okay you
have to put a budget to the public
hearing not to the town meeting so that
it seems like yeah that was too much
okay right so I'll correct that that
that was an error in my doc so then what
we were talking about is that we would
need to have the town meeting um no
later than the or technically no later
than April 4th or the I'm sorry not the
town meeting the budget hearing no later
than April 4th but April 2nd would give
us a couple more days and that would be
that April 2 is a Wednesday so it seems
like an appropriate day to have the
schedule the uh budget
looking at my calendar I think we
scheduled a regular Board of Finance
meeting March
26th right smack in between those two
dates
um yeah I don't know if we want to do
something with that uh or leave it but
just honestly that's probably it's
probably a that's probably a good
meeting
by which we finalize the budget based on
our discussions with the board of
Selectmen we finalized the budget to be
discussed at the town meeting the
following Wednesday which would be April
2nd right and then the
uh
um
yeah town meeting or the public hearing
public hearing public
hearing hearing right public hearing on
April 2nd the town meeting on the 9th so
Board of Finance meeting on the
26th uh public hearing on the April
2nd and town meeting on April
9th that's what this sounds like
right
correct my thought is so do we have to
set those tonight Mark or we just we
make sure that all of I they all make
sense and if everyone's in agreement
that they want to set them I'm thinking
can we just you know make sure all of
this all make sense and then we just set
the dates next month keeping this yeah
we can I mean this is just a this just a
guideline and this all just passed and
we're kind of dealing with all the yeah
this isn't yeah this isn't committing us
to anything so we can just okay I think
we can just verbally have stated that
this is it but I do think there's value
in giving the other boards basically an
idea of what we're going to do we could
we can do that verbally or we can you
know I think it's great that we're
discussing it it makes sense I thought
we were setting it in stone right now
and I was hoping we could do that next
month if no I think there's nothing that
has to do that you know okay thank you
and please review the charter and review
this because I looked at it and I think
I got all the dates that corresponded to
the CH changes but it's just me I have
and I've sent it to the town's attorney
but I haven't gotten anything back from
him so this is just what I think the
charter says and hey I could be wrong
I'm not a you
know yeah I think it's great to State it
verbally maybe just all of us go over it
one more time and you know just make
sure absolutely and we could adapt this
needed you know um you know we have time
I think I think in January you know we
need to set meeting schedule with the
board of
Selectmen um you know we have time we
don't need to do that right away um just
sometime in January find a time that's
amenable to them again that maybe that's
something I come discuss briefly at the
tri board meeting although we have a lot
of things going
on sounds
good okay well that sounds like we
covered the changes to the Charter and
the budget process timeline any further
questions or comments on those
okay so the next agenda item is 6f which
is the tri board meeting date and agenda
I think you all have seen the emails
mostly from Joanne um asking about dates
that are available originally the third
looked like a good date but the
superintendent can't be there and the
Board of Ed certainly felt that was
important that she be there uh so then
the fourth was proposed s of like for
most of you uh that was possibility
again doesn't have to be everybody there
the tenant would be helpful for sure is
there opportunity to kind of get
together air out any issues and discuss
any you know probably discuss the budget
timeline um you know tell them kind of
what we're what we're
presenting um maybe we can you know as
Eric said suggested we can give them
some targets and I will say that I would
hope they wouldn't come up with anything
more than 2 or 3%
increase uh but you know there are some
things outside of our
control um I think you all also saw that
thing about the mill potential Grand
list for the automotive uh uh taxation
Grand list changing too so was it just
Automotive or was it also your property
your house uh it's mostly Automotive the
way they valuing the automotive
um EXC I thought it was included house
but not property all right okay no
trailers RVs were discuss you know how
but mostly is how they how they value
the uh they're going to depreciate the
um depreciate the car the Auto Value
from the from the retail value uh over
time basically with some residual value
after I don't know 17 years or instead
of Blue Book value or adaa value what
yeah exactly no more of that yeah y
right bottom line is none of the towns
really know how it's going to be because
when they did this they never really did
a study which said on average how much
does it affect the rates so the
assessors all think it's going to
decrease the grand list but they nobody
knows how much um and we also don't know
there there's a couple other things one
they took trailers essentially off the
grand list um so we're definitely going
to lose some revenue for that so if you
have a motor home that stays on the
grand list but if you just have a giant
uh fifth wheeler um as far as I know
that comes off the grand list now so
that will no longer be taxable for
private owners not commercial commercial
stay on right and then there's a rebate
or
a uh and they're still working through
the details of this because this is not
what the final way it was executed by
the state is not exactly how the
legislature passed it
but there is a a a clause now that a
veteran that is 100% dis disabled um
will get 100% property
tax
uh on but just on their house so not on
their land but on their house yeah
that's what I was saying a minute ago
yeah yeah so it's very that's what I was
talking about um and the difference is
if if there's a couple different ways
you can look at at somebody who's you
can have something that's 100% service
related disability or you could have
somebody that has a 20% disability for
hearing loss and a 10% disability for
PTSD and stack a few other things and if
it gets up to the category where it's
considered 100% disabled um then they
fall in that category so there's a lot
of gray with it um last time I heard I
think we had nine uh residents and over
that applied for the complete exemption
how many of them will actually qualify I
don't know um but that will definitely
affect the grand list also so um so in a
normal year we have between you know
usually one and a half
perent and two and a
half% appreciation of the grand list in
other words the town budget can go up by
2 and a half% and be mill rate neutral
um in this year we don't know um you
know so we probably don't have that a
cushion that we have in a lot of
years can I bring it back to the tri
board meet thank you Eric for that I
mean that's something we'll have to see
in the future not to you know but I did
read that with interest too just the tri
board meeting I just wanted to say a
couple things definitely I know Mark
already brought up that the topic that
the budget will come up I'm sure you
know all of the boards wanted to make
sure that we definitely focused a little
bit on um last year we had the meeting
and this will be our second one together
just how to have the boards you know
cohesively work together whoever had um
I had sent an email out that if anybody
has ideas that they want to put on the
agenda please send them to me I don't
think there's I will get in touch with
Caitlyn Greenhouse who had brought this
up she was involved the last time with
um Paula when she was a board of
selectman the three of us kind of took
ideas put the agenda together um
so again if anyone had any you know
hopefully it'll be it's going to be a
nice meeting um yeah is that
meeting where's that meeting be again I
want to clarify is it it's the 4th at s
well I was going to ask both Rob and and
Bill if they were available it's
December 4th at 7 it's a that's a
Wednesday that works for me Wednesdays
are oh no I'm sorry y Wednesday at seven
yep December 4th so I think I believe
that's in two weeks right the week after
Thanksgiving yes we thought let's try to
stick to the beginning of December if we
could just because all of our boards
will have other meetings and with the
holidays and such so when December 3rd
was out I threw out the date of December
4th let's try to hope you look I I'll
never complain about a Wednesday or a
Thursday those are my days that are the
best so uh you know I know
everybody sometimes are are really great
about working around me um because you
know Mondays or Tuesdays are often hard
for me but yeah that Wednesdays the
fourth that works fine is that a zoom
meeting or is that a I believe it's
going to be in person we had had the
last one in person which was pretty
effective I mean I true yeah I don't
that wasn't I don't it wasn't really
fully determined so yeah I me we can
find Clarity on that if you can send out
a note on that yeah I'll add it on to I
had sent something but I will find out
Al once we had this meeting I'll reach
out to Caitlyn see where we are with
things
and so as far as I know the board of
Selectmen agrees to the fourth three of
the Ford board members and I can make it
um the
other uh one board member hasn't
responded yet but you certainly have
Quorum of the board of Selectmen at that
meeting at this point it's actually
pretty
good good I Haven that sounds
good so the the question I had relative
to that meeting is does the board of
Finance want to set specific targets
both for the general budget and the Ed
budget because if you do you probably
got to make that
decision prior to the meeting because
once you're in the tri board meeting
you're not really going to be able to
discuss it among yourselves to set
that you're asking us now if we want to
do that at that meeting that we're
getting no not prior so what I'm saying
is that if you read what the charter
says it suggests that when you have that
preliminary meeting with the boards that
you can identify a target for both the
education budget and the town budget
doesn't say you have to just that you
can so if you're gonna do it you would
have to agree to it ahead of time um so
that's why I'm bringing it up now I
don't think that's appropriate I don't
think that was the nature think you for
your input but I don't think that was
the nature of why they wanted this
meeting in my opinion I'll listen to
what the board members say it definitely
wasn't driven by the budget it
definitely wasn't driven by I feel like
that's coming in way too budget heavy I
have no problem with us if we do have
targets and US discussing that as a
board eventually but I I feel like
that's starting the that meeting off I
feel like we're gearing it all till
that um anyone
differently not necessarily but the you
know again according to the Charter we
really are technically supposed to have
a joint meeting with the board of
selectman to discuss the budget um so
you know this when some of us were
talking about this joint meeting that's
what I thought we were talking about
doing is is having this meeting be that
kickoff meeting uh but I think Caitlyn
or whoever else had suggested starting
it actually was just had didn't have
that in their head they were really just
thinking bringing this to the boards
together exactly for that discussion
again so we could do either um you know
technically we're supposed to have that
joint meeting um if if if this isn't it
I don't know when we would have it
honestly uh it would maybe be January
and which is a little bit late to kind
of give guidance or whatnot an
alternative would be if we were to vote
on uh come up with recommended budget
guidelines like you know increase limits
or you know decree or whatever we want
to do you know we could in theory just
communicate that to them through a memo
or something something else um you know
or or do it outside of this meeting so
if this December 4th meeting is not that
meeting to discuss the budget then we
either need to decide we're going to
have one probably in January or um we're
going to do some other mechanism this
first year and mark the reason for me
saying that I I have no problem with us
doing that I just feel like here comes
that pressure thing again I feel like
now we're you know by it I feel it like
I feel like I want to be a lot and I
feel pretty educated as it is I'm very
involved I go to a lot of things I feel
like I don't have enough info to all of
a sudden do that right now unless you
you know and I go everywhere so what
would be basing our input on you know to
point Joanne what Bill sorry well your
point is taken what would what would we
be basing right thank you that on we
don't have any information yet so how
could we make any recommendation at this
point yeah I feel like thank you that's
that's how I feel I feel like there's
time for it and whether it gets
communicated by a memo once we get some
facts and we're able to digest it a
little we'll have no problem doing that
I think we're all gonna have to you know
dig down I just think that I just think
it's a little premature to do it in two
weeks with Thanksgiving holiday in
between and thinking that all of us are
going to do our due diligence and boom
boom boom have all the answers so thanks
that thanks for the agreement because I
feel rushed with that because I'd like
to
prepare well in that case then we like I
said we'll have to decide separately and
I and I understand the sentiment I
certainly do because you know it does
seem like a lot and things change
quickly with this with this Charter
change um you know all of a sudden we're
kind of up against this new schedule
which again I as I've said before I
think we can manage uh but it does kind
of throw this whole thing about the
early meeting uh into gray spot
because it's past October
15th and we can gloss over discussing
the budget and say that things are going
to be forthcoming I have no problem with
that I just don't want to to Eric's
Point have to have our targets ready and
prepared you know I mean it can be
glossed over in a nice way as we're
discussing different things and say hey
this could happen we're but and then you
know we would not be remiss to to visit
the schedule at least right process in
schedule right that's pretty neutral
just and that's just in the in you know
we're that's just solid you know good
planing communication and management
right so everyone's aware of it yeah so
I what I think is that the board of Ed's
budget to some extent influences the
town's budget and vice versa so what I
had put out to Caitlyn and others is
that what I thought was
probably appropriate is that from the
board of Finance position you guys
outline the revised budget process and
I've given you the memo to what that's
likely going to be and if you want to
change that you can um but I've given
you a timeline which I think works um
you know set some sort of expectation
for the other boards if you want it
sounds like you don't want to and that's
okay too you're not obligated to it just
you have the option to do it at that
meeting um and then three make sure that
all the entities understand the
ramifications for the other budget
pressures that are going to be on the
grand list because regardless of what
anybody wants to budget we all know
roughly what the public will accept for
a mill rate increase because we've had
plenty of practice in the past of trying
to push a bigger mill rate through
then the public will accept um in
getting it kicked back
so we should kind of know that going in
um and that's information you should be
providing to the two other entities you
know will perspective said like in due
time like we will gather all those facts
and if we
think we have to make our
recommendations as a board I'm sure all
of us together will do that I have a lot
of confidence that there's a lot of us
that will be behind that you know
whatever we think but just in two weeks
we can't possibly be ready but like like
we were just trying to say because I saw
that email you sent Eric um and and
she's the one that I'm going off a two
because I think she responded to you
that she thought it wasn't going to be
budget heavy but the budget can be
discussed then you should probably as a
board schedule another date and invite
the other two boards because now you
have a you have an obligation by your
Charter to do that I think you're trying
to run and I I appreciate so much your
input because we value it but I think we
will do that and we just said we will
it's just that with Thanksgiving next
week and then that first like get
together then we'll either decide by
memo or whatever we'll we'll kind of act
on whatever happens on that meeting how
we should proce Ed if if the
conversations are going great and
suggestions are asked for and open
dialogue happens maybe that will happen
but I think we should go into that
meeting not setting that as the major
you know
Focus okay unless you know again I don't
want to keep speaking I've just been in
the communication so I'm trying to honor
it plus I like to like Bill said like
like others have said we want to be
prepared we have nothing to go on you
know but prior years so we'll get there
I mean we're going to adhere to this
timeline we'll make our suggestions
we'll well we're up for it so my one
comment would be Visa V setting
targets if we wanted
to you could set targets not based on
what we're hearing from departments and
what's
needed you can set targets based on what
you think is possible
now I'm not saying that's the way that
you should work up a budget
necessarily but you could say going in
okay Target 2% or Target one and a half%
or whatever pick a number doesn't matter
the argument would be this gives
guidance to the various departments and
boards and what have you as they're
working up their budgets should try to
to try to come close to that number it
doesn't mean that it is set in stone
it's not holy RIT it's a t
guideline a guideline opposed to an
actual rule exactly so I'm agnostic on
this honestly guys um I could go either
way I I would I would be totally happy
to roll in and say hey guys try to hit
2% or go in and just have a dialogue and
and not do that but I also don't think
we have the whole idea behind a
guideline behind a Target is
that you don't of course you don't have
all the information yet that's the point
uh you're sort of directing them to try
and pull their their things together and
hit something in that range roughly uh
it's it's it's a again it's a guideline
it's not supposed to be everybody would
understand I think coming in in November
or or sorry early
December that we don't have in front of
us all the asks from each department and
commission I mean that's a given so I
could go either way on this frankly I'm
agnostic I go your way Joanne I could go
the other way and and pick a Target I
honestly don't care but I guess I'll
just I'm just throwing it out there as I
think that's what's int the intent
behind this I think that's what people
were thinking yeah I I would agree I
that's what the intention of the meeting
in the in the charter was but it does it
sounds like there's not really an
appetite right now on the for the board
to to to do that at least at this
meeting um in order to discuss get into
substantive discussions of the budget
and the tri board meeting other than to
you know talk about the process and and
whatnot so you know if anybody wants to
make a motion to something different
that's fine but I would say let's move
on because I think we've kind of got
what we're going to get out of this
we're gonna we could go we can talk
about this in circles all night yeah
eventually I just want to add eventually
I defin thank you rob for clarifying
that I was focusing on the tri board
meeting and I know who's going to be
there so yeah
they're we'll we'll discuss it in the
future like you said yeah no no problem
I just I that was just I wanted to give
my taken I I do understand that process
and we're going to want to do something
like that we definitely are we we have
our multi-year experience with passing
budgets and you know we can come up with
numbers and you know it doesn't mean
that that means that we actually know
what Town Road needs to be you know what
have you um let's if we could again
we're just gonna talk i' like to move on
guys it's getting late I'm pretty tired
so me too I'm with you I'm with
you if if nobody has any objections
let's move on to the next item which is
the recommendation for credit card
policy you have no information only here
um yeah so so I put that in the the
policy
the the uh treasurers because she's
completed the audit prep for this year
and turned over the audit book to the
auditor um this has been on her wish
list for a while um to get gain better
control over the credit card um when we
first adopted a policy it was adopted in
when we brought in two credit cards for
the town um and she's recommended that
we tighten up some of the
policies uh the board of Selectmen
couldn't agree to that they're so it's
in limbo right now but I think we are
going to end up to some extent changing
the credit card policy in part because
our current policy does not really match
the charter the charter basically says I
have to approve all expenditures before
they're made but the old credit card
policy pushed that responsibility onto
the department head and the
responsibility for forwarding the
paperwork and then I'm supposed to
approve it later well it kind of doesn't
make sense for me to approve it later
because the purchases are already made
so what am I approving um you know so so
that's in progress um I left it in there
I gave you the drafts of all the
documents if you have any comments I'm
certainly willing to take It ultimately
I think that's a board of Selectmen
decision probably not a board of Finance
decision in this case but if you have
any guidance I'm happy to pass it
along any you know I probably would
agree with that it is kind of an
executive you know process policy type
thing it's not really about expenditures
per se but how they're handled um
internally I mean we are responsible for
checks and balances to to some degree
anybody have any other questions or
comments or I mean you're going to I
assume fill this in as if and when it
moves further further through the board
of Selectmen
sure well nobody's got anything I guess
move on to 68 which is establish banking
relationship with Webster and you
alluded to this earlier Eric you want to
give us the mown sure so uh the the
treasurer and I have gone out and
interviewed um multiple Banks um we've
been trying to get away from MN for a
while because their customer service has
been horrendous
[Music]
um um basically we no longer have Brinks
pickup um from our deposits we have to
bring all the deposits to the bank even
though they've promised us for the last
year and a half that they would
reinstate that they've never managed to
be able to and Brink still thinks the
town owes them money because when they
took over from peoples they just stopped
paying Brinks that's just one example
the other example is we cannot get the
ability to examine our credit card
transactions in real time um they just
have never been able to give us that
ability um which is crazy because if
something happens or there's a fraud
alert or something like that we have no
way to monitor that in real time and
every time that has to happen I have to
go in and talk to the branch manager or
the assistant manager and do all that in
person which is kind of a waste of my
time um so we've been extremely
frustrated with MNT that seems to be
pretty common sentiment among the towns
that still retain them for finances
um we looked at jwi City Savings Bank uh
we looked at Webster and we looked at
Key Bank um Webster seems to be the one
that's most responsible for municipal
banking in this area and most of the
towns that have Webster accounts are
reasonably happy with them so what we
want to do is not do everything at once
and then decide six months from now
they're no better than what they were
we want to establish a relationship
change some of our accounts there for
things which aren't really liquid in
other words things we don't have to get
stuff in and out of very readily also
take AC take advantage of the fact that
they will offer us a money market
account which has a 5% interest rate um
which we can put some of the money in
and then it's basic it's a secured money
market account and it has basically the
same rate of return for the stiff
account so that's what we're we're
talking about doing also switching our
credit cards to that account from mnt's
credit cards and then the last thing is
requesting from them a line of credit uh
prior to us starting the Bridge Project
in
February um and the reason is although
those bridges are 100% funded we are on
the hook as a town to pay the contractor
and the construction inspection bills
and then apply to the state and federal
government for
reimbursement so we've had a meeting
with the contractor and the construction
inspector you know and what we came up
with is that for the most part we have
enough money in our Bunker Hill
Bridge uh
account that we can pay the bills but
there will be one maybe two occasions
where we're going to be way over what's
in that account um so we need a swing
Reserve essentially a line of credit to
pay that and wait to get
reimbursed um so that's kind of what
we're looking to do um I've asked Dennis
whether we need uh public approval for
that or whether that can be just
approved by Board of board of Finance I
don't have that answer yet but I wanted
to discuss that with you
um and worst case scenario we could pay
for that out of our unexpended fund
balance because none of these bills are
going to be bigger than what we have in
unexpended fund balance I'm just
uncomfortable
with you know basically spending a
million out of the reserve um and taking
it down too far in case there is another
emergency low probability but I would be
more comfortable taking that from you
know for the month or two between when
we pay the money and when we get rebated
um run that off of line of credit
because even if we're spending four or
five perc interest annually you know in
a month that's not going to be a big
payment so it doesn't represent a big
expense to
us but that was my big question was what
would that cost us versus yeah floating
it off of our own
savings um you know what's what's the
swing there how much are we talking
about Eric like order of magnitude I it
doesn't have to be
exact well if you think about it if we
pull it out of our unexpended fund
balance that's money we're currently
earning 5% interest yep so we would not
be getting 5% interest on a million
dollars let's say right um you know so
that's one option option number two is
if we're getting a loan it looks like
our loan rate is going to be somewhere
in the sixes because I mean we are a
good uh you know it is basically a
secured it would be a secured line of
credit because we're borrowing money
that we already have Grant funds to
recover from um so I think the net is
only going to be a couple percent
difference by leaving it in stiff intact
even if we're paying
6.8% we're still only really netting uh
a couple of percent difference on that
million dollars the
1.8% annualized for a couple of months
on a million bucks it's nothing what do
we I I don't know I I I can't you know
this is the part where I don't have the
math um what kind of magnitude are we
talking Eric I mean yeah that's what I'm
saying what are we talking about we
talking about $5,000 number 10 what we
yeah I I looked at it and said so on
a million
doll we make approximately
$50,000 per year so if you round it off
we make about
4,000 a month so it would be less than
that so we're not talking about big
dollars um um probably talk about a
thousand maybe
1,200 if we're talking about what I'm
asking is how a credit are you looking
at you know we talking about borrowing
you know 50,000 100,000 half a million
what is it I would set to borrow up to a
million okay I don't think we actually
probably need to be borrowing more than
a half million because we already have a
half million in the fund uh to pay the
to reimburse and and get that
reimbursed but but it it's certainly
going to be in the range we should never
be out between our payments and our
reimbursements we should never be out
more than a million dollars Eric that
would be the upper
end uh I was just wondering typically
your experience and I don't know how
much experience you have with
this is the state good at pay
reimbursing like are we going to get it
in a month or is it like other stuff
where you're going to wait months years
like no I mean as far as I understand
from talking to our construction
inspector the worst we would be out from
a payment requisition to a check in the
door is six weeks okay
um you
know all right I just wasn't sure how
much experience you had with getting
reimbursed from the state but if
any well is federal too right and
federal yeah that's right right the
majority of the money comes back from
the federal government but about 20% of
it comes from the state so it's 80
Federal 20%
state but the state money is actually
passed through federal arpa funds anyway
so ultimately it all comes from federal
dollars but some of it passes through
the state and some of it comes directly
from the federal
government certainly sounds like a good
idea to have that line of credit
again yeah I think probably you want to
have it you know kind of out in front of
us like what would what are the numbers
and you know you guys are you
comfortable with the you know we'll vote
on it and at a meeting and just say are
we comfortable with opening okay to
approve that line of credit obviously
like I said you got to talk to the town
attorney make sure you know we have
straight whether we need to go to a
public meeting or not that changes
everything um so
let's let's get that answer and then we
can
revisit right so the other thing that
and and you had a letter in the packet
from Cheryl that was a pass through
letter to me that I put in the packet
that discussed that um the second thing
that Cheryl was asking essentially was
for permission to set up two credit
cards with MN Bank um so in the initial
setting up seems to be
I think a board of Finance decision um
and then the second thing would be to
open a money market account at Webster
um Webster is currently offering 5% in
interest on the money market account um
and the second thing is she made a
recommendation on closing some of the
MNT checking
accounts and trans transferring that
money in with other money into the money
market account and the specific ones
were the nonrecurring reserve fund um
which has been on the books now since I
became a town administrator and I'm
actually not really sure any of us
understand what that is um or why we
have it we've certainly never spent
anything from it uh the fire engine
Reserve fund which is just the money
that was originally put in the fire
engine bank account which is not the
total amount in the fire
engine
um you know fund the the total fund has
around
$400,000 in it um of that
$400,000 54,000 is sitting in a distinct
bank account so the idea would be to
close that bank account use pulled cash
put that money in the money market
account so at least it's earning
reasonable interest do the same thing
with the Department of Public Works
equipment Reserve fund the revaluation
Reserve fund and that little
$8,700 AES a capital fund because as you
remember of that
$22 or
$212,000 that's in the AES capital fund
$8,700 is still sitting in the old bank
account the rest is in pooled cash so
that's kind of her
recommendation that way as we start
transitioning accounts we're knocking
down the total number of accounts we
have and then whereas we have multiple
for instance special Revenue funds what
Cheryl would like to do is have a single
special Revenue fund and then just
suballocate within that fund for all the
the existing
funds so Eric I think I'm getting a
little confused between the word funds
and the word accounts correct when I say
account I mean a physical one of our 26
MNT bank accounts right and when I say
like her Memo says um I think closing
the following accounts and setting up
new money market account makes sense
but then then they then then she refers
that to them as funds so will the funds
remain intact as a virtual
fund so as far as I know the funds
should remain intact as a virtual fund
okay we could shift we have talked about
whether it's smarter to shift all the
money that's currently in pulled cash
and the stiff account and dump it into
the money market since it's basically
the same interest um and that way it
would already be in that bank account
and you wouldn't have to debit one and
credit the other when you made a
purchase um you know that that's really
for her to decide what the simplest way
to do that is if that makes sense yeah I
mean personally I I have no problem
closing closing the accounts um you know
and she's already referring to something
we talked about earlier which is to
allocate any interest to the to the
various funds based on the relative
value you know just right it makes sense
you know there's no sense keeping things
any more complicated than they need to
be Louise yeah Eric why are you looking
to open up Credit in Mt that's what I
was gonna ask thank you Louise that was
my question we're not opening up Credit
in M andt the credit card credit card
you said credit cards oh if I did that
was a mistake intention is to close the
MNT cards and swap them over to two
Webster cards so we can actually monitor
them okay you said open two MN and I was
like what oh sorry that's that was my
error didn't thank
you Kim is that your hand up or you just
adjusting
screen adjusting the screen thank
you um you know that stuff all makes
sense to me as long as we are tracking
things properly uh we should I'm fully
on board with this idea of consolidating
our accounts down and getting as much of
our money as humanly possible into
accounts that are earning interest so
work for me anybody want to make a
motion to uh I have another question
yeah go ahead please the stiff the stiff
account versus the money market account
money markets can change at any time
what kind the stiff account the stiff
account interest changes daily it's the
same thing okay y they're basically are
they just keying off the same rate
probably the prime rate yeah probably
going off the FED prime rate yeah all
right um yeah I'm I'm good with that so
sorry what's what would the motion be
apologies I think the motion would be
you know just for reference in your
packet on page 27 is the uh is the
recommendation from Cheryl to Eric so
it's got a fair Fairly good detail there
and I think it could be as simple as you
know motion to recommend that you know
Cheryl take the action to consolidate
the accounts as recommended or
memo uh memo of Wednesday November
13th um to move five different
funds um into this into Webster Bank um
I'll make that motion I'll go ahead and
I'll move that we go ahead and approve
Cheryl's plan to move those five fund
amounts into a new Webster bank account
to see how that goes and does that
include the credit card does that have
to be part of the motion no they're not
they're not really part of that okay
that's fine I I would second that motion
as well okay thanks Bill uh further
discussion all those in favor say I I I
I any
opposed any
extensions okay hearing none then do you
have our approval to move forward on
that Eric when such time allows and you
uh we move to uh
Webster and obviously keep us updated on
how that goes customer service wise yeah
yeah yeah and that was that was 6i which
the recommendations speaking as a guy
who has an MNT account yeah I have a
Webster account I like them yeah yeah I
know I've had so much frustration I I
just hate moving anyway I think this uh
yeah I think think this takes us to 6j
which is the status of the Town audits
um Jo and Joan had asked about these
earlier and we did have uh some input
from the treasure I'm not sure she
copied everything Joan I don't know if
you want to comment on that yeah I in my
basis was I know that last November we
had had an audit Mee you know it was on
our agenda and I don't think she did
copy everyone I just wanted to see where
we were in the cycle of audits because
last November we did one um and then I
thought I had gone through all the
agendas I had posed this question to
Eric and Cheryl nicely answered it today
um I feel like we're one audit behind
and I didn't want to because I just got
the email today Mark I didn't want to I
didn't have time to look again yeah yeah
really go back through it and figure it
out yeah because I know that Cheryl came
on board and then she got everything in
line and then took a while for us to
have that meeting in person with the
auditor and I thought that was the I
found my packet and one of my folders
and I thought it said 20 the year of
2122 which would be fiscal
year 22 correct um and so then Cheryl
went on board and told me where she was
in this year you know our fiscal year
ends June 30th they then we'll keep
paying bills through August um I think
she said a couple months then by the end
of October of
24 she had just turned over oh she takes
a couple months to then write Financial
reports you know statements reports
about The
findings um and then they turn it over
to the auditor so that only happened
October of 24 which was last month you
know October 30th of 24 she makes sure
she gets that so I was trying to get a
timeline in my head so every year I
could know okay it gets in the auditor's
hands when do we get the audit back you
know is that in January is that February
March I just was trying to get a process
so that we could get on a timeline of
meeting um so again I know that we were
behind Cheryl was hired to get things
done and put together a binder of what
she does every year what she puts into a
binder to give to the auditor and so I
was just trying to get a basis of where
we
and then Cheryl did get back to me
stating that we had
discussed the FY uh year ending
2023 which would have been fiscal year
23 of last year which starts July 1st of
22 ends June 30th of
23 but given the timeline sh that she
gave me today if she followed that
process she would have got things into
everything done wrapped up
and into the auditor by October 30th of
2023 which means we would have reviewed
that particular audit I don't know would
we have done it in March or April I
don't I've gone to every single Board of
Finance meeting I don't remember that
meeting happening yet so I feel like
there's one lost audit that we haven't
reviewed Am I Wrong Eric did we review
it at a meeting or was there just a a
footnote saying it's been put in or no I
I I think you
have
um missed that so see I knew I knew
there was one missing yeah so I didn't
want to put that out to Cheryl until I
was absolutely sure right no we've had
we we put the audit for that year to bed
last year around
April this is what I'm trying to get up
here like yeah so so basically what
happens is as of last year we were
basically caught up and by basically
caught up I mean we have the town books
ready to go for the auditor as soon as
they can schedule us now um one of the
problems we have is there is a Statewide
shortage of firms doing Audits and
there's a Statewide shortage of CPAs um
Mahone Sables underst staffed frankly
the earliest they can get to us
generally is around January 1 and
technically they're supposed to have
finished in an ideal world they're
supposed to have finished the audit by
December 31st but they don't even start
looking at it to until then so at this
point we have turned the audit books
over to the auditor so they have a copy
uh of our books kind of the last thing
we need to do is our capital
appreciation schedule uh Cheryl and I
were working on that today but there's
never a rush for that because that is
the last thing the auditor processes
anyway so even once the auditor starts
auditing it's probably five weeks before
they need that so we're still you know
two months plus ahead of when of the
when the auditor needs that information
so we have finally the last two cycles
have done our part um so I think the
auditor should be able to start in on
our offit audit somewhere around January
1 and the major work will be done
usually around it usually takes them
around six weeks um before they get
things back to us um that is that is
exactly what I just kind of wanted to
know the cycle because I knew we were
getting on the corrected cycle like you
said so you this is all the information
that I was seeking I knew from our prior
meeting that you know we're this kind of
a small one of the smaller towns and I
remember their shortages of the Auditors
and I knew it wasn't right on time they
could get to us when they could so right
yeah thank you this is the exact
feedback I wanted um but I know that we
did miss last year I don't think it was
ever reviewed with us the the one that
ended
2023 pry sure it was it but I could be
wrong it said well then maybe I have the
wrong the wrong audit in the wrong book
you know because I was trying to make
sense of the minutes the agendas in my
backup from the meeting in my backup
from the meeting was 2021 2023 with the
whole big binder so I'll listen I know
it's been a long meeting um than you
sorry I just wanted to interject so I so
it's usually you know finished fiscal
year ends July uh June 30th obviously we
have a couple months of finishing all
the bills then we have the payments and
outstanding then she takes a couple
months to prepare by October 30th the
financial statements and everything to
give to the auditor minus what you just
talked about the depreciation schedule
correct and then comg in a normal by
state law it's supposed to be done by
December 31st or whatever you said the
rules but we we kind of go past that
right so but so let's put it in
perspective uh 75% of the towns in the
state of Connecticut do not make the
December 31st deadline so even though
that is a state guideline most towns
don't move in the last three or four
years
25% of the towns have not made the drug
drop dead date which is July 1 after so
6 months after they recommend okay um
and if you remember right two years ago
we missed that by a couple of weeks um
we were pretty close but there was one
thing that was still under uh you know
of concern to the auditor that was
eventually uh identified so we missed
that because we got our books to them
late um you know the good news is you
know our books are together way before
the auditor can get to them so as far as
I'm concerned the town's done their
their part in the process I don't know
what the status of the schools
documentation is um I just I don't have
that information and I don't know what
the school Surplus is is likely to be I
can tell you on the
side we collected considerably more
Revenue than we anticipated because in
the last year's budget fiscal year we
were not anticipating the movement to
the stiff account um and that was
basically
127,000 more dollars in income than we
anticipated from that um and uh so all
total revenue wise we came in around
146,000 over our initial estimate so we
made more money than we
anticipated and we spent about the
equivalent we underspent our budget as
best we can tell by about
$165,000 so the net is about
$300,000 that appears will flow back
into the unexpended fund balance from
that year so that's um you know that's
awesome actually um so I guess what I'm
saying is financially we're sound right
now um and we've been pretty
consistent um with with that total so
yeah because I'd like I'm gonna
backtrack and see what it was for the
fal year that you said the audits
already in and you know the 2023 so I'll
have to back back and compare that um so
if going on what you said and sticking
to just this final timeline thing so if
he starts in January you would think we
might have had it back by April is or
you were thinking six weeks eight so I'm
going to look forward and see when that
would have been presented to us and I
just don't recall it at all but I mean I
I don't know it's is it available
somewhere where we could still review it
yeah absolutely you could go on that
treas leading up to Liz that's what I
was like we have to do this I don't
remember because it helps us moving
forward sure yeah sure did you say it's
supposed to be under the treasurers you
all want a hard cop or not a hard copy
because I don't think we had that many
printed this year do you want a PDF of
the whole audit
file because I'm pretty sure I've given
it to the board before but I'm happy to
give it to you again no I just meeting
about it and oh go ahead Liz that's yeah
I'm new so I would like it yeah I
definitely want it I've been asking
these audit questions for like the last
couple weeks so just trying to get my
wrap my brain around the system and
feeling like we missed a
review yeah does anybody else feel like
we missed a review I mean I remember
going through those reviews but I don't
know specifically for that year Joan we
had one Mike fentor um last year um do
you remember because he was he had to
miss a couple meetings CU his son had
gotten injured that one time right and
I'm trying to remember the timing for
all that so you know it was last
November believe it or not and when I
brought out and and that's all I'm just
trying to get the years you know to yeah
I and based on what he's saying with the
timeline it probably would have been in
our May June July you know it we're only
at
November so if the audit for the year
I'm talking about fiscal that end Ed
2023 and then you wouldn't have seen it
and been completed till April of 2024 is
it would have been in the last couple
months and I just don't recall it at all
so I'm just going to backtrack I'm glad
we're getting the timeline and if we
haven't reviewed it we can
basically maybe all look at it have a
few take a look at it just helps in the
budget process so thank you for letting
me add it to the agenda and trying to
kind of understand it the timeline can I
ask can I ask another question before we
move on and I swear it's the last one um
do we have are we privy to the schools
audit results combined so it's a
combined audit so when I send you the
audit report it will include uh it
includes both
entities thank
you y because frankly because they
don't ordinarily what's statute tally
supposed to happen is they're supposed
to give the treasure Town treasure who
is also technically the school board
Treasurer uh the information to prepare
the financial statements which are then
audited by Mahoney s um we don't ever
get enough information to actually do
that um they provide that information
directly to the auditor so the auditor
then has to to prepare the combined
financial statements um and then back
charges the school for the cost of doing
that um so that's basically what's
happening
now
okay any other how many years of the
audit do you
want I got it on my desktop going back
to the 1920 budget year I'd be happy to
send them all to you if you want them
all or you can I can just give you all
the latest one tell me what you
want I'd go back to 20 okay i' go back
to 20 yeah I want the one that I was
talking about please the
2223 the one that we would have met on
this year sometime in
2024 because I have the
other okay yeah I've never seen them
before so no it's good to compare year
to year too they make they make for
thrilling reading I bet and should they
are should they be posted somewhere on
the website or no is that
not you could I'm not sure those people
would be interested in it but you know
we they could always call and ask um
okay because I I didn't see them I've
been trying to do some homework and yeah
didn't see anything like that oh sure
yep yeah so the the three things that
are
basically is there's a uh a single audit
report a financial statement report and
then
we uh anytime an audit has if there's
any findings of any sort a town is
required to submit a corrective action
plan which is basically you saying okay
the Auditors identified these things
here is how we will address them so I
can send you those
also the findings are really the kind of
the the the most important part of that
you know what's what's the finding and
what have we agreed to do to you know do
better basically yep yep okay rest was a
lot of dry legal ease and you know some
financial review right you know I may
read it I may read it once and say oh
yeah I never need to read this
again well I think the findings are
interesting I mean if you went back four
or five years you'd see that you know
the findings have there have been
findings every year um some of the major
some of the minor and a few years ago
think you know we've definitely gotten
our house much more in order than it
used to be absolutely is treasur
Especial this was the one that I found
that we had that in-person meeting so
the date was November 29th
2023 fiscal year
2022 so you know if it was November of
last
year but it was the year before Zod it
because I think that's when we were
getting our house in order era yes
correct so I mean you've already agreed
that we think we so that's I mean I'm
I'm this is making sense to me with
having this last year but it was the
year before there's no way that we like
at this particular time we could have
one for the current year so it all yeah
again I've said enough but it's this big
presentation thing and it does it does
help a lot thanks
okay any other questions or comments on
the audit
process okay I guess we'll move on to
agenda item seven which is board open
discussion does anybody have anything
else to bring before the
board okay hearing none we'll go to
correspondence um I don't think we've
had any formal corresponden Joan already
talked about the correspondence with the
board about the tri board meeting and
there were some questions
about
uh you know some of the stuff accounts
that was really more to the treasurer I
guess anybody have anything
else okay public speak I don't see
anybody in the public speak Arena this
is just board members plus the community
voice Channel and Eric is the town of
Andover so if uh nobody has any
objections I think we should move for
adjournment would anybody like to so
move I will so move a motion to I saw
Bill stand up yeah okay Bill moves to
adjourn who seconds Joanne you want to
second that second it
okay any
discussion okay uh hearing none we'll
all vote all those in favor say I I I
anybody
opposed going once going twice no any
extensions okay the meeting is adjourned
thank you very much everybody a lot